#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\options openright
\use_default_options false
\master ../tesi.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language italian
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding T1
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Indice
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language french
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Discorso del 17 gennaio 2017
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The government’s negotiating objectives for exiting the EU: PM speech
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/the-governments-negotiating-objectives-for-
exiting-the-eu-pm-speech
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From: Prime Minister’s Office, 10 Downing Street, Department for Exiting
 the European Union, and The Rt Hon Theresa May MP.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Part of: Article 50 and negotiations with the EU, Immigration and borders,
 Employment, European single market, UK economic growth, Brexit, and Counter-ter
rorism
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Published: 17 January 2017
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Text of the speech
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A little over 6 months ago, the British people voted for change.
 They voted to shape a brighter future for our country.
 They voted to leave the European Union and embrace the world.
 And they did so with their eyes open: accepting that the road ahead will
 be uncertain at times, but believing that it leads towards a brighter future
 for their children – and their grandchildren too.
 And it is the job of this government to deliver it.
 That means more than negotiating our new relationship with the EU.
 It means taking the opportunity of this great moment of national change
 to step back and ask ourselves what kind of country we want to be.
 My answer is clear.
 I want this United Kingdom to emerge from this period of change stronger,
 fairer, more united and more outward-looking than ever before.
 I want us to be a secure, prosperous, tolerant country – a magnet for internati
onal talent and a home to the pioneers and innovators who will shape the
 world ahead.
 I want us to be a truly Global Britain – the best friend and neighbour
 to our European partners, but a country that reaches beyond the borders
 of Europe too.
 A country that goes out into the world to build relationships with old
 friends and new allies alike.
 I want Britain to be what we have the potential, talent and ambition to
 be.
 A great, global trading nation that is respected around the world and strong,
 confident and united at home.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
A Plan for Britain
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That is why this government has a Plan for Britain.
 One that gets us the right deal abroad but also ensures we get a better
 deal for ordinary working people at home.
 It’s why that plan sets out how we will use this moment of change to build
 a stronger economy and a fairer society by embracing genuine economic and
 social reform.
 Why our new Modern Industrial Strategy is being developed, to ensure every
 nation and area of the United Kingdom can make the most of the opportunities
 ahead.
 Why we will go further to reform our schools to ensure every child has
 the knowledge and the skills they need to thrive in post-Brexit Britain.
 Why as we continue to bring the deficit down, we will take a balanced approach
 by investing in our economic infrastructure – because it can transform
 the growth potential of our economy and improve the quality of people’s
 lives across the whole country.
 It’s why we will put the preservation of our precious Union at the heart
 of everything we do.
 Because it is only by coming together as one great union of nations and
 people that we can make the most of the opportunities ahead.
 The result of the referendum was not a decision to turn inward and retreat
 from the world.
 Because Britain’s history and culture is profoundly internationalist.
 We are a European country – and proud of our shared European heritage –
 but we are also a country that has always looked beyond Europe to the wider
 world.
 That is why we are one of the most racially diverse countries in Europe,
 one of the most multicultural members of the European Union, and why –
 whether we are talking about India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, America, Australia,
 Canada, New Zealand, countries in Africa or those that are closer to home
 in Europe – so many of us have close friends and relatives from across
 the world.
 Instinctively, we want to travel to, study in, trade with countries not
 just in Europe but beyond the borders of our continent.
 Even now as we prepare to leave the EU, we are planning for the next biennial
 Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in 2018 – a reminder of our unique
 and proud global relationships.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
A message from Britain to the rest of Europe
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And it is important to recognise this fact.
 June the 23rd was not the moment Britain chose to step back from the world.
 It was the moment we chose to build a truly Global Britain.
 I know that this – and the other reasons Britain took such a decision –
 is not always well understood among our friends and allies in Europe.
 And I know many fear that this might herald the beginning of a greater
 unravelling of the EU.
 But let me be clear: I do not want that to happen.
 It would not be in the best interests of Britain.
 It remains overwhelmingly and compellingly in Britain’s national interest
 that the EU should succeed.
 And that is why I hope in the months and years ahead we will all reflect
 on the lessons of Britain’s decision to leave.
 So let me take this opportunity to set out the reasons for our decision
 and to address the people of Europe directly.
 It’s not simply because our history and culture is profoundly internationalist,
 important though that is.
 Many in Britain have always felt that the United Kingdom’s place in the
 European Union came at the expense of our global ties, and of a bolder
 embrace of free trade with the wider world.
 There are other important reasons too.
 Our political traditions are different.
 Unlike other European countries, we have no written constitution, but the
 principle of Parliamentary Sovereignty is the basis of our unwritten constituti
onal settlement.
 We have only a recent history of devolved governance – though it has rapidly
 embedded itself – and we have little history of coalition government.
 The public expect to be able to hold their governments to account very
 directly, and as a result supranational institutions as strong as those
 created by the European Union sit very uneasily in relation to our political
 history and way of life.
 And, while I know Britain might at times have been seen as an awkward member
 state, the European Union has struggled to deal with the diversity of its
 member countries and their interests.
 It bends towards uniformity, not flexibility.
 David Cameron’s negotiation was a valiant final attempt to make it work
 for Britain – and I want to thank all those elsewhere in Europe who helped
 him reach an agreement – but the blunt truth, as we know, is that there
 was not enough flexibility on many important matters for a majority of
 British voters.
 Now I do not believe that these things apply uniquely to Britain.
 Britain is not the only member state where there is a strong attachment
 to accountable and democratic government, such a strong internationalist
 mindset, or a belief that diversity within Europe should be celebrated.
 And so I believe there is a lesson in Brexit not just for Britain but,
 if it wants to succeed, for the EU itself.
 Because our continent’s great strength has always been its diversity.
 And there are 2 ways of dealing with different interests.
 You can respond by trying to hold things together by force, tightening
 a vice-like grip that ends up crushing into tiny pieces the very things
 you want to protect.
 Or you can respect difference, cherish it even, and reform the EU so that
 it deals better with the wonderful diversity of its member states.
 So to our friends across Europe, let me say this.
 Our vote to leave the European Union was no rejection of the values we
 share.
 The decision to leave the EU represents no desire to become more distant
 to you, our friends and neighbours.
 It was no attempt to do harm to the EU itself or to any of its remaining
 member states.
 We do not want to turn the clock back to the days when Europe was less
 peaceful, less secure and less able to trade freely.
 It was a vote to restore, as we see it, our parliamentary democracy, national
 self-determination, and to become even more global and internationalist
 in action and in spirit.
 We will continue to be reliable partners, willing allies and close friends.
 We want to buy your goods and services, sell you ours, trade with you as
 freely as possible, and work with one another to make sure we are all safer,
 more secure and more prosperous through continued friendship.
 You will still be welcome in this country as we hope our citizens will
 be welcome in yours.
 At a time when together we face a serious threat from our enemies, Britain’s
 unique intelligence capabilities will continue to help to keep people in
 Europe safe from terrorism.
 And at a time when there is growing concern about European security, Britain’s
 servicemen and women, based in European countries including Estonia, Poland
 and Romania, will continue to do their duty.
 We are leaving the European Union, but we are not leaving Europe.
 And that is why we seek a new and equal partnership – between an independent,
 self-governing, Global Britain and our friends and allies in the EU.
 Not partial membership of the European Union, associate membership of the
 European Union, or anything that leaves us half-in, half-out.
 We do not seek to adopt a model already enjoyed by other countries.
 We do not seek to hold on to bits of membership as we leave.
 No, the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union.
 And my job is to get the right deal for Britain as we do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Objectives and ambitions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So today I want to outline our objectives for the negotiation ahead.
 Twelve objectives that amount to one big goal: a new, positive and constructive
 partnership between Britain and the European Union.
 And as we negotiate that partnership, we will be driven by some simple
 principles: we will provide as much certainty and clarity as we can at
 every stage.
 And we will take this opportunity to make Britain stronger, to make Britain
 fairer, and to build a more Global Britain too.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
